ZCZC MIATWOAT ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM

Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
800 AM EDT Sun Aug 29 2021

For the North Atlantic...Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of Mexico:

The National Hurricane Center is issuing advisories on Hurricane 
Ida, located over the north-central Gulf of Mexico approaching the 
coast of Louisiana, on Tropical Depression Ten, located over the 
central tropical Atlantic, and on Tropical Depression Eleven, 
located over the central subtropical Atlantic.

1. A broad area of low pressure located just east of the Delmarva 
Peninsula is producing a few disorganized showers and thunderstorms 
over the warm Gulf Stream waters.  Environmental conditions appear 
favorable for some slow development over the next few days as this 
system drifts southeastward and then eastward, moving away from the 
east coast of the United States.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...10 percent.
* Formation chance through 5 days...low...20 percent.

2. A tropical wave is expected to emerge off the coast of west Africa 
by Tuesday.  Environmental conditions appear conducive for 
development once the wave moves offshore, and a tropical depression 
is likely to form toward the end of the week while the system moves 
west-northwestward at 10 to 15 mph over the eastern tropical 
Atlantic. 
* Formation chance through 48 hours...low...20 percent.
* Formation chance through 5 days...high...80 percent.

Public Advisories on Tropical Depression Eleven are issued under 
WMO header WTNT31 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCPAT1. 
Forecast/Advisories on Tropical Depression Eleven are issued under 
WMO header WTNT21 KNHC and under AWIPS header MIATCMAT1.

Forecaster Berg

